dataset link : kaggle datasets download -d thedrcat/daigt-v2-train-dataset

The above given dataset is the main dataset for pour project .
as the dataset size is being big i could be uploaded can download from the above given link


The project distinguish between human-written and AI-generated text in the era of rapid advancements in artificial intelligence (AI) and natural language processing (NLP) technologies. As AI-generated text becomes increasingly pervasive across various platforms, there is a growing concern regarding the potential for misinformation and manipulation. Therefore, the project focuses on developing robust methodologies for detecting AI-generated content to ensure transparency, trustworthiness, and authenticity in textual communication.

Initially, the project entails preprocessing the text data to enhance its quality and optimize memory usage. This involves cleaning the data by removing noise and handling contractions, followed by compressing the data to improve memory efficiency. Through exploratory data analysis (EDA), insights into the distribution of prompt IDs and the linguistic characteristics of the text are gained, laying the foundation for subsequent modeling and analysis.

Subsequently, a neural network model is developed using tensor flow/ keras to classify text data into categories of human-written or AI-generated. Advanced text vectorization techniques such as TF-IDF and word embeddings are employed to transform textual data into numerical representations suitable for machine learning algorithms. The performance of the model is evaluated using various metrics, including accuracy, precision, recall, and ROC-AUC score, to assess its efficacy in detecting AI-generated text. Additionally, error analysis is conducted, and a comprehensive dataset containing human annotations and error classifications is released to facilitate future research in the field. Through rigorous preprocessing, modeling, and analysis, the project aims to advance the understanding and methodologies for detecting AI-generated text, thereby promoting transparency and accountability in textual communication. 
